Let's observe a few things
about our current approach.
Let's see if there's
any low-hanging fruit,
any paper cuts that we
could easily eliminate.
For me the one that jumps out the most,
and
maybe it's just because I've made
this mistake many, many times.
But every time I click the highlight,
I requery the DOM for
the list of 64 tile elements.
You see that,
that is something that never changes.
Once we draw the board that is fixed,
but every single time I clicked on it,
I am re computing the answer to that
question, that's unnecessary work.
To me that's the lowest
hanging of the fruit here.
There's other things that others
might have changed first.
That's the first thing I wanna change,
is I don't wanna recompute that
every time I wanna save that work.
So instead of the original board element,
I'm just going to maintain
an array of the tiles.
It has that DOM element so
it's not a real native array but
I'm just gonna maintain that list.
So instead of saving off this reference
to original board element here's what I'm
gonna do.
I'm gonna set this right here,
right after I've
drawn the board I'm gonna do it once and
save it.
Now I know I'm using the vehicle of
DOM API calls that almost none of
you ever worked with any
more because of frameworks.
I know we're using that
as the vehicle here and
it may feel like this system
Old School are out of touch but
I don't want you to worry about the DOM
API usage nearly as much as I want you to
think about when is work being done and
how often is it being done.
DOM work is one of those things
that is exceptionally costly,
cuz the DOM is still always the slowest
part of our JavaScript times.
And so it's a way for
me to illustrate the problem here.
But it's really about when that work
gets done and how often it gets done.
Why not do it once upfront and
remember that information instead of
waiting until much later to do it.
Does it makes sense?
There's one other little
change that because we don't
have this original board EL.
We're not gonna be able to do that one,
and so
we're gonna need to do,
let board EL and get that from row EL.
And then we're gonna put in board EL here.
All right,
let's talk about this findtile function.
Let's think about yet another different
way that we could have done it,
maybe not better but a different
way that we could have done it.
Instead of relying upon
the built-in ones or
the built-in node list maybe what we do,
because we now have that tiles array,
maybe we just simply loop
over the tiles array and
use the indexing to find the element
within that tiles array.
So if I were to loop
over this tiles array,
I'm gonna get an element that I
could ask it, what is your index?
And I could compare that index to
the index that I'm looking for.
And if I found the right one,
I could return it.
Did I lose you or did that make sense?
Remember how we computed
the index of any given element?
We did it just right here.
This was computing the row and
column index for any element.
So we could copy that
logic down into here or
even put it into its own function
to recompute an element's index and
ask it if its computed index is the same
as the one that we're looking for.
That's a way of doing this.
But that's a big old waste of time
to recompute the index over and
over again because I
already know the index.
When do I know the index?
When I'm constructing the board,
that's information that I know at
this moment and then I throw it away.
And I recompute it later,
over and over and over again.
What if we saved the information
of what each tile elements row and
column index coordinate
is with the tile element?
You follow that,
don't throw the work away, save the work,
that's an algorithm in this best friend.
Now how are we going to save a piece
of information with a DOM element?
It turns out another part of the native
DOM API's that many of you have
not been exposed to Is
what we call dataset.
It's a special mechanism for
associating data with a dom element.
There is a gigantic caveat that you need
to pay attention to so don't miss this.
The only data that you can associate
with a DOM element in this way,
through the data set,
is string information.
If you try to save a number, guess
what's going to happen to the number?
It's going to get turned into a string and
that will create a gotcha for us later.
But we'll deal with that
when we get to it, okay?
So we can store information with
an element in its data set question.
>> It's just a personal note.
If you can use a set and
then pass in the element and
then you can associate any
arbitrary data with an element.
>> You're talking about map?
>> Yeah.
>> Yes.
>> Or sorry, map.set.
>> We can use the dom element as a key
in the map, absolutely.
>> Yeah, map.set, I mean.
>> Yes, we absolutely could do that.
We're not going to do that this time, but
we absolutely could construct another
data structure M map, remember I talked
about it at the beginning of the course.
What is a map?
A map is a hash map, meaning any object
can be a key including a DOM element.
And then within the map,
if we save as the key a DOM element,
we can save whatever values we want.
Right now, we're gonna take a much more
narrow approach, which is the data set.
And the builtin HTML5 data set capability,
it can only store stuff as strings.
And if you want a mental model for
why it can only do strings,
it's because it represents it as
attributes on the DOM element.
And we know that attributes
can only be string values, so
that's your mental model.
It's literally like serializing it as
if it's an attribute on the element.
But nevertheless,
that's still gonna work okay for us.
So that's what we're gonna
do is we're gonna say
tileelement.dataset.row is equal to i.
And dataset.com, this j.
So I've created two dataset
properties row and column.
They are gonna have the values i and
j respectively.
But note the caveat that it will
have turned those into strings,
even though we assigned it numbers.
So you cannot assign it a function or
some complex circularly nested object or
anything like that, that's gonna fail
because it can't be stratified properly.
So we can now use that information,
can't we?
As we loop over our tiles,
all we need to do is
say if el.dataset.row is equal to row and
el.dataset.column is equal to column,
return el.
I wonder if anybody spots but
rather important large
caveat here in line 64.
Maybe I'll make it super explicit and
put the cursor here.
What would happen if I wrote
the code like that the way so
many people write their JavaScript?
>> The type of the diffference?
>> It would fail,
because we're passing in numbers and
the thing that's in data set
has been turned to a string.
So you can either cast it back to
a number or you can do as I do,
and let JavaScript coercion mechanism take
care of that implementation detail for us.
And if your linter yells at
you just turn your linter off.
Again, I'm not saying that this is
the right way for fine tile to be written
indeed, we're eventually gonna refactor
it so there is no fine tile function.
I'm just simply showing you different ways
of approaching this and letting you see
the trade-offs, the good and
the bad in different ways of doing things.
Let's do a little regression test.
Let's switch over to our browser, refresh,
and make sure that it's still working.
It's not an automated test, but it still
appears to be working correctly even for
the quite literal corner
cases pun intended.
Y'all must be too asleep.
It must be like the post lunch.
What is he talking about, chessboards?
Even my good jokes nobody laughs that
well, maybe they're just not good jokes,
I don't know.
This code represents
the option two branch.
If your code happens to not be working,
you miss something less than equals
somewhere, don't feel bad, stash your
changes check out the option to branch.